###Agenda

##Questions about the proposal/things to decide: 
1. Finalize RQ
Current: Do iron supplements with varying absorption efficiencies alter the abundance of pathogenic and commensal bacteria in the gut microbiome?

Absorption + supplementations
Do different iron absorption levels from supplements cause an overrepresentation (overgrowth) of pathogens in the gut microbiome?
In infants, does the form of oral iron supplementation; ferrous sulfate (FeSO₄) versus a micronutrient powder (MNP) that combines ferrous fumarate with absorption‑enhancing vitamins C and A; produce distinct changes in the relative abundance of pathogenic versus commensal gut bacteria?

Supplementation
Do iron supplementation cause an overgrowth of pathogenic bacteria in the gut?

2. Finalize Hypothesis
Question for hypothesis: Should we be mentioning the different beneficial and pathogenic taxa in the hypothesis? 

Current: We therefore hypothesize that FeSO₄ supplementation administered alone will result in greater amounts of unabsorbed iron reaching the colon compared to MNP containing ferrous fumarate, vitamin C, and vitamin A. Consequently, we predict that FeSO₄ supplementation will lead to overgrowth of iron-dependent pathogenic bacteria and a reduction in protective commensal taxa compared to MNP supplementation.
Others

Other options:
Because FeSO₄ delivers a larger unabsorbed iron load to the colon, we anticipate a greater enrichment of iron‑dependent pathogens and a concurrent depletion of beneficial Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus relative to MNP. This shift should be attenuated in anemic infants, who absorb a higher proportion of the supplement.
FeSO₄ supplementation, by delivering a higher proportion of unabsorbed elemental iron to the colon, will reduce alpha‑diversity and the relative abundance of beneficial Bifidobacterium/Lactobacillus, while increasing pathogenic taxa (Clostridium, Escherichia) compared with MNP or no supplementation; these effects will be more pronounced in healthy infants than in anemic infants.

3. Finalized aims: 
Aim 1: Determine alpha and beta diversity in stool samples from infants receiving MNP, FeSO₄, or no supplement, stratified by anemia status (Taxonomic profiling & diversity).
Aim 2: Define core membership in the developing gut of healthy vs. anemic infants across treatment groups (Core microbiome identification).
Aim 3: Identify bacterial taxa that are overrepresented after FeSO4, MNP, or no supplementation (Differential abundance (DESeq2)).
Aim 4: Predict microbial metabolic pathways to evaluate functional consequences of iron supplementation and anemia status (Functional inference (PICRUSt2)).

4. Title ideas: 
- Unabsorbed Iron from FeSO4 Promotes Pathogenic Bacterial Expansion in Infant Gut Microbiome Compared to Multinutrient Powder
- Investigating the effect of unabsorbed iron on gut microbiota of healthy/anemic infants treated with FeSO4 and Multinutrient Powder supplements
